README.md, before:

# School District Analysis

## Project Overview

I was tasked to help Maria, the Chief Data Scientist for the ***PyCity School District***, in an analysis of overall district performance, individual school performance, Top and Bottom performing schools, Average Math and Reading scores for each grade from each school, Scores by school spending, Scores by school size and Scores by school type. This analysis will help the School board make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities based on the standardized test scores and current school funding

To complete the task, I had to use Anaconda and the Jupyter Notebook.

## Purpose of this Analysis

I completd my analysis as requested, but then the school board notified Maria and her supervisor that the `students_complete.csv` file shows evidence of academic dishonesty; specifically, reading and math grades for **Thomas High School** ninth graders appear to have been altered. 

Although the school board did not know the full extent of the academic dishonesty, they wanted to uphold state-testing standards and turned to Maria for help. Maria asked me to replace the math and reading scores for Thomas High School with NaNs while keeping the rest of the data intact. 

Once I replace the math and reading scores, Maria would like me to repeat the school district analysis that I did earlier and write up a report to describe how these changes affected the overall analysis.

## Analysis Steps

In the initial analyis (see the code file `PyCitySchools.ipynb`), we created a script to perform the required analysis.

For this analysis, we had to only change the **9th** grade **Math** and **Reading** scores for the school **Thoams High School**, and run the script that I created for the initial analysis.

Below are the steps that were undertaken

1. Installed `numpy` using the command `conda install numpy`

**Image 1 (below): Installing numpy**

![Installing numpy](./Resources/Installing_numpy.png)

2. Imported numpy 
`import numpy as np`

3. Used the `loc` method on the **student_data_df** to select **all** the reading scores from the **9th** grade at **Thomas High School** and replaced them with NaN.
```
student_data_df.loc[(student_data_df["school_name"] == "Thomas High School") & (student_data_df["grade"] == "9th") & (student_data_df["reading_score"] > 0), "reading_score"] = np.nan
```
4. Refactored the code in previous step to replace the **math** scores with NaN.

```
student_data_df.loc[(student_data_df["school_name"] == "Thomas High School") & (student_data_df["grade"] == "9th") & (student_data_df["math_score"] > 0), "math_score"] = np.nan
```
5. Checked the student data for NaN's using the code `student_data_df.tail(10)`

**Image 2 (below): Output of student data after replacing with NaN's**

![Output of student data after replacing with NaN's](./Resources/output_with_nans.png)

6. Repeated the **school district analysis** that was done in Module 4 to recreate the metrices

## Analysis Results

Below are the answers to questions realated to how the replacement affected various metrices.

#### 1. How is the *district* summary affected?

#### 2. How is the *school* summary affected?

#### 3. How does the replacement affect *Thomas High School’s* performance relative to the other schools?

#### 4. How does the replacement affect the Math and Reading scores by *grade*

#### 5. How does the replacement affect the scores by *school spending*

#### 6.  How does the replacement affect the scores by *school size*

#### 7.  How does the replacement affect the scores by *school type*

<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<

For this part of the Challenge, write a report that summarizes your updated analysis and compares it with the results from the module.

The analysis should contain the following:

Overview of the school district analysis: Explain the purpose of this analysis.

Results: Using bulleted lists and images of DataFrames as support, address the following questions.

<<>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>



## Summary



<<>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
Summarize four major changes in the updated school district analysis after reading and math scores for the ninth grade at Thomas High School have been replaced with NaNs.

<<>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
========================================

Deliverable 3 Requirements
Structure, Organization, and Formatting (7 points)
The written analysis has the following structure, organization, and formatting:

There is a title, and there are multiple sections (2 pt).
Each section has a heading and subheading (3 pt).
Links to images are working, and code is formatted and displayed correctly (2 pt).
Analysis (18 points)
The written analysis has the following:

Overview of the school district analysis:

The purpose of this analysis is well defined (3 pt).
Results:

There is a bulleted list that addresses how each of the seven school district metrics was affected by the changes in the data (10 pt).
Summary:

There is a statement summarizing four major changes to the school district analysis after reading and math scores have been replaced (5 pt).

========================================

Commit message:

district before and after image uploaded

README.md, after:

# School District Analysis

## Project Overview

I was tasked to help Maria, the Chief Data Scientist for the ***PyCity School District***, in an analysis of overall district performance, individual school performance, Top and Bottom performing schools, Average Math and Reading scores for each grade from each school, Scores by school spending, Scores by school size and Scores by school type. This analysis will help the School board make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities based on the standardized test scores and current school funding

To complete the task, I had to use Anaconda and the Jupyter Notebook.

## Purpose of this Analysis

I completd my analysis as requested, but then the school board notified Maria and her supervisor that the `students_complete.csv` file shows evidence of academic dishonesty; specifically, reading and math grades for **Thomas High School** ninth graders appear to have been altered. 

Although the school board did not know the full extent of the academic dishonesty, they wanted to uphold state-testing standards and turned to Maria for help. Maria asked me to replace the math and reading scores for Thomas High School with NaNs while keeping the rest of the data intact. 

Once I replace the math and reading scores, Maria would like me to repeat the school district analysis that I did earlier and write up a report to describe how these changes affected the overall analysis.

## Analysis Steps

In the initial analyis (see the code file `PyCitySchools.ipynb`), we created a script to perform the required analysis.

For this analysis, we had to only change the **9th** grade **Math** and **Reading** scores for the school **Thoams High School**, and run the script that I created for the initial analysis.

Below are the steps that were undertaken

1. Installed `numpy` using the command `conda install numpy`

**Image 1 (below): Installing numpy**

![Installing numpy](./Resources/Installing_numpy.png)

2. Imported numpy 
`import numpy as np`

3. Used the `loc` method on the **student_data_df** to select **all** the reading scores from the **9th** grade at **Thomas High School** and replaced them with NaN.
```
student_data_df.loc[(student_data_df["school_name"] == "Thomas High School") & (student_data_df["grade"] == "9th") & (student_data_df["reading_score"] > 0), "reading_score"] = np.nan
```
4. Refactored the code in previous step to replace the **math** scores with NaN.

```
student_data_df.loc[(student_data_df["school_name"] == "Thomas High School") & (student_data_df["grade"] == "9th") & (student_data_df["math_score"] > 0), "math_score"] = np.nan
```
5. Checked the student data for NaN's using the code `student_data_df.tail(10)`

**Image 2 (below): Output of student data after replacing with NaN's (with some NaN entries highlighted)**

![Output of student data after replacing with NaN's](./Resources/output_with_nans.png)

6. Repeated the **school district analysis** that was done in Module 4 to recreate the metrices

## Analysis Results

Below are the answers to questions realated to how the replacement affected various metrices.

#### 1. How is the *district* summary affected?
![Change in District summary](./Resources/district_summary_before_and_after.png)


#### 2. How is the *school* summary affected?

#### 3. How does the replacement affect *Thomas High School’s* performance relative to the other schools?

#### 4. How does the replacement affect the Math and Reading scores by *grade*

#### 5. How does the replacement affect the scores by *school spending*

#### 6.  How does the replacement affect the scores by *school size*

#### 7.  How does the replacement affect the scores by *school type*

<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<

For this part of the Challenge, write a report that summarizes your updated analysis and compares it with the results from the module.

The analysis should contain the following:

Overview of the school district analysis: Explain the purpose of this analysis.

Results: Using bulleted lists and images of DataFrames as support, address the following questions.

<<>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>



## Summary



<<>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
Summarize four major changes in the updated school district analysis after reading and math scores for the ninth grade at Thomas High School have been replaced with NaNs.

<<>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
========================================

Deliverable 3 Requirements
Structure, Organization, and Formatting (7 points)
The written analysis has the following structure, organization, and formatting:

There is a title, and there are multiple sections (2 pt).
Each section has a heading and subheading (3 pt).
Links to images are working, and code is formatted and displayed correctly (2 pt).
Analysis (18 points)
The written analysis has the following:

Overview of the school district analysis:

The purpose of this analysis is well defined (3 pt).
Results:

There is a bulleted list that addresses how each of the seven school district metrics was affected by the changes in the data (10 pt).
Summary:

There is a statement summarizing four major changes to the school district analysis after reading and math scores have been replaced (5 pt).

========================================
